EAGE ANNUAL

VIENNA | AUSTRIA

Figure 3 shows the generated knowledge graph associated to the zone of interest. Knowledge graph is a
structured way to represent and organize knowledge in a way that is easily queried and traversed across all
the corpus of documents ingested. This makes it useful for a holistic interpretation of the wells present in
the area of interest, interpreting and ranking them based on their location and importance in the graph
respectively as “alpha” or geological analogue, “scouts”, “pack or “lone-spirit” wells. As observed, the
structure of the knowledge graph does indicate a non-homogeneous distribution with 7 different clusters
being identified. Each cluster is centered around key wells acting as key geological analogues (“alpha”
well) for the surrounded wells located within the cluster. “Scouts” wells define the unique critical paths
between adjacent clusters, allowing geologists to deeper understand the geology and exploration history of
the area of interest (Hernandez et al., 2019).

5,1 °

G500M t-2 an ge >

A, at 9-9

SOMm-7 7 ASUS we ES es

: °
= ea %
“C5 oe 3 \ eae ae ee
cane ae : 7 iene
SSG R72 -
* " — -,
6506H 2-6 y <n a aie ~ = gt
ca a 7 ad
6507/7-2 Geuate . pe a Fac: a \
* esanAGTIO Adin eae Dm. ” a = 2/7-20 me
tang: = - ssi
+ rece 4 +m “ew a MY oh ee
Nahre ee ae
manda = s ae ma iad
1 t. zn sal
. i wd oe _ oaghg? 7m

Figure 3 Knowledge graph with clusters of wells from the Norwegian dataset

Based on the recognized clusters, wells are further investigated by cross-correlating their respective post
drill conclusion, formation penetration and keywords search associated to reservoir properties, seal
characteristics or a specific search allowing a deeper dive in the corpus. An example of such full corpus
search for ‘porosity’ detected from the well final well reports, within text, images and tables identifying the
relevant values of the porosity and their associated formations. Auto-classified images can enhance the
analysis by providing detailed information about the textures, layers, and structural characteristics of the
rocks through different scales, from field scale with seismic stacks or isochrone map, to microscopic scale
with thin section images. Additionally, image analysis techniques such as pattern recognition can be used
to automatically extract features and classify rock formations.

In this example, the “data sweep” suggests suitable areas for CCS in the Norwegian Sea corresponding to
Heidrun and Marulk fields. The study highlights the potential of Ile and Garn formation within the Fangst
Group under the Heidrun Field. These intervals show good average depths for CO2 storage for supercritical
storage, and are characterized by good porosity and permeability, with a significant net sand thickness. Seal
integrity has been confirmed and validated. The interval above Ile and Garn are currently producing, and
therefore has seismic and velocity data which allows precise CO2 injection monitoring through
microseismic. The upper Ile and Garn aquifers have good reservoirs in the southern part of the Froan Basin
which may indicate additional potential CCS storage in this area.

84'* EAGE Annual Conference & Exhibition
