EAGE ANNUAL

VIENNA | AUSTRIA

Lithology tab
Knowledge Graph structural element

‘Aa = :

. i Image search module
@ Well Summary Tab @ Heat Map 3 Tn search module Ov: findings with @ fguien/veacia/stvatighephic

Figure I Analytical tools used for the case study research strategy for CO2 storage screening

Such a set of tools provides powerful means for understanding and interpreting large and complex sets of
data. It can help to identify patterns, trends, and relationships that might not be immediately apparent from
raw data due to the segregation of information in separate files for each well. By narrowing down the scope
of focus on selected wells, the exclusion of non-relevant well and time frame reduction of the process can
be accomplished.

In this paper, we propose a new CCS screening workflow called Double Funnel Approach (DFA), seen on
Figure 2 which consists of a “data sweep” and a “data target”. The “data sweep” aims to reduce all findings
from all ingested data to key learnings and key wells over the area of interest, allowing to review and rank
the most suitable field candidates for potential CCS opportunities. The “data target” follows the “data
sweep” and focuses only on the field selected candidates and aims to refine and enhance the existing
unstructured data with seismic, logs, interpretation and geomodel data. During this exercise, redundant and
irrelevant data are removed through efficient automated version indexing and cross-correlation with the
unstructured data. Finally, the data is now ready for screening for CO2 injection capacity and monitoring
analysis.
Unstructured Data Interpretation

Key learnings gant date eet
Key wells eur wee
“ ” Key risks “DataTarget” gant
Data Sweep Key drivers ae Target field for COZ
BasinMapping gen area storage
Play Evaluation | cane
a,
Reservoir Properties | te
te Monitor injection in

Seal Properties Depleting fields review CCS wells

“ees

and ranking
"Elevan t iy Stee,
BASIN FIELD
Identify learning over Propagate learning
sedimentary basins over key depleting

fields

Figure 2 Proposed Double Funnel Approach for CCS Screening Studies
CCS “data sweep” use case offshore Norway

The ingestion of data for the case study comprises of 490,000 pages and 440,000 images, covering a total
of 361 wells within 5 basins in Norway consolidating 50 years of exploration, development, and production.
All these data has been retrieved from the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate (NPD). The “data sweep” of
the data was completed in 21 days which evaluated various hypothesis and converge on the key learnings,
key wells, key risks, and key drivers.

84'* EAGE Annual Conference & Exhibition
