EAGE ANNUAL

VIENNA | AUSTRIA

Double funnel approach for screening of potential CO2 storage opportunities in the Norwegian
Continental Shelf

Introduction

Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a key waste management strategy for reducing carbon dioxide (CO2)
emissions and mitigating climate change. The Norwegian continental shelfhas significant capacity for CCS,
as it has several depleted oil and gas fields that can be used for storage of CO2. The field of CCS has seen
significant growth in recent years, as the need to reduce carbon CO2 emissions becomes increasingly
urgent. However, despite the increasing number of studies on CCS, there remains a lack of consensus on
the most effective methods for accelerating and scaling up CCS projects.

In this study, the integration of Machine Learning (ML) whereby the reports from the Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate (NPD) are ingested into one platform creates potential cost-effective solution by screening
previous knowledge gathered for depleting oil and gas fields and significantly reduces the time of the
screening, the evaluation and the ranking of CCS prospects. We investigate the feasibility of such a study
on the Norwegian Continental Shelf by analyzing the geology and capacity of existing oil and gas fields.
The analysis is conducted on historical data from final well reports for 361 wells (NPD, 2023) which are
priorly ingested using Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) by indexing and tagging
metadata from the documents, extracting, and classifying images and generating geological interpretable
output such as heat maps or knowledge graphs. Our research includes a detailed characterization and
interpretation of the subsurface geology, including the identification of potential storage formations, the
analysis of reservoir properties such as porosity and permeability and the evaluation of seal characteristics.
We also conducted a comprehensive assessment of the capacity for CO2 storage, considering factors such
as injection rate and pressure buildup.

Methodology

Depleting oil and gas fields in the Norwegian Continental Shelf with their massive amount of data being
collected over decades of development and production are often considered good candidates for CCS
opportunities. Unfortunately the vast amount of knowledge come with the challenges associated to the lack
of normalization of the data and the diversity of the different format and template utilized making it difficult
to utilize the full potential of such data without allocating significant manual work.

In our case study, Machine learning pipelines are used to classify, cluster, and extract insights from such
an unstructured data. Priorly trained and G&G domain specific natural language processing (NLP)
transformers are executed on the text to perform indexing, metadata tagging and topic modeling, when
Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) extract, classify and segment extracted images. Such an
approach has the advantage of significantly lessening manual human intervention allowing G&G experts
to focus on the interpretation of the data itself using a front end deployed interface (Baillard et al., 2019).
As seen in Figure | the data visualization and interpretation are performed through a suite of six analytical
tools: (1) summarizes the important attributes of the well automatically extracted from the document, (2)
aids in portraying the well data on a map and visualizes the lateral distribution of search queries, (3)
provides an in-depth search within all the corpus for the text and any tagged associated metadata using
NLP, (4) correlates wells between each other’s to understand and interpret the semantic structure of the
basin(5) searches the images extracted from DCNN into its respected geological categories, (6) quantifies
the frequency of different lithologies present from the different wells.

84 EAGE Annual Conference & Exhibition
